README.md, before:

[![dagger](https://github.com/zephyros-dev/media-server/actions/workflows/deployment.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/zephyros-dev/media-server/actions/workflows/deployment.yaml)

# Introduction

Code for running self-hosted services using podman and ansible

# Infrastructure graph

## Networking

```mermaid
flowchart TB
  subgraph internet
    http_client
    wireguard_client
    subgraph github[Github]
      github_action_runner
    end
    dns_name_server[DNS Name Server]
  end
  subgraph lan_network
    subgraph media_server
      intel_amt[Intel AMT]
      subgraph container_network
        caddy -- reverse proxy --> applications
      end
      server_port -- 80 and 443 --> caddy
    end
    subgraph pc
      windows
    end
  end
  subgraph openwrt_router
    http_client --> port_forward
    github_action_runner --> wireguard
    wireguard_client --> wireguard
    port_forward -- 80 and 443 --> server_port
    dns_name_server <-- update dynamic public IPv4 -->  ddns_client_v4
    dns_name_server <-- update dynamic public IPv6 prefix -->  ddns_client_v6
  end
  wireguard --> lan_network
```

## Data

```mermaid
flowchart TB
  subgraph media_server
    subgraph os_disk
    end
    subgraph data_disk
      subgraph storage_disk
      storage_disk_1
      storage_disk_2
      end
      subgraph parity_disk
      parity_disk_1
      end
    end
  end
```

# Note

- Always run partition playbook with --check first

```
ansible-playbook partition --check
```

## PC

### Intel AMT support

- It's possible to control the PC remotely from BIOS via Intel AMT
- Setup:

1. Enable Intel AMT
2. Enable the integrated GPU in the BIOS in case of using a discrete GPU (NVIDA, AMD)
3. Set the integrated GPU as the default GPU in the BIOS
4. Use [Intel software](https://software.intel.com/sites/manageability/AMT_Implementation_and_Reference_Guide/default.htm?turl=WordDocuments%2Ftoolsusingkvm.htm) for setting up KVM (remote mouse and keyboard) to the PC. For cross-platform open source solution, checkout [Meshcentral in a container](https://github.com/Typhonragewind/meshcentral-docker)

### Boot from Nvme

- I used a HPZ230 for the server with an NVME hard drive in the PCIE slot.
- The mainboard does not allow booting from PCIE slot directly, so I have to boot from [Cloverboot](https://github.com/CloverHackyColor/CloverBootloader) installed in an USB.
  - It can be installed by downloading the release from the github page and burn the ISO to the USB. The name is `CloverISO-<revision>.tar.lzma`
  - After burning the ISO into USB, copy the EFI\CLOVER\drivers\off\NvmExpressDxe.efi to EFI\CLOVER\drivers\UEFI
  - In the BIOS, set the boot order to boot from USB first
  - Then set the following settings in the BIOS
    - Advanced -> Option ROM Launch Policy -> Storage Options Rom -> UEFI only

### WOL

- In the BIOS, enable wol via Advanced -> Device Options -> S5 Wake on LAN

## Services

### Koreader connection to opds Calibre content server

- The koreader opds requires `/opds` path to the calibre content server
- The calibre content server authentication need to be `digest` for the koreader opds

# Troubleshooting

## Pymedusa

### Pymedusa failed create hardlink

- Check [this](roles/pymedusa/README.md)

### Check failed to hardlink file

- Run this command in the Video folder

```
find . -type f -links 1 ! -name "*.srt" -print
```

<!-- TODO: Write a scheduled monitoring for this -->

## Nextcloud

### Stuck in maintenance mode

1. Rebuild nextcloud

```
ansible-playbook container_run.yaml --tags nextcloud
```

# FAQ

1. Why HP Z230?

- The PC itself is a bit old, and the bios is no longer updated. However, it is good for home usage due to the following reasons:
  - Can be cheaply build with a Xeon E3-1230v3 CPU
  - Has 4 DIMM DDR3 slots, and support for ECC memory. DDDR4 ECC memory can be expensive
  - Has 2 GPU slots, though I don't really need SLI
  - Has Intel AMT support, so I can have headless remote access to the BIOS for troubleshooting
- It has some annoyances however:
  - The mainboard has no Nvme slot, and does not allow booting from PCIE slot directly, but can be solved via Cloverboot option from above
  - Has little room for HDD (2 by default), but can be solved by using a HDD cage

Commit message:

docs: add external podman troubleshooting

README.md, after:

[![dagger](https://github.com/zephyros-dev/media-server/actions/workflows/deployment.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/zephyros-dev/media-server/actions/workflows/deployment.yaml)

# Introduction

Code for running self-hosted services using podman and ansible

# Infrastructure graph

## Networking

```mermaid
flowchart TB
  subgraph internet
    http_client
    wireguard_client
    subgraph github[Github]
      github_action_runner
    end
    dns_name_server[DNS Name Server]
  end
  subgraph lan_network
    subgraph media_server
      intel_amt[Intel AMT]
      subgraph container_network
        caddy -- reverse proxy --> applications
      end
      server_port -- 80 and 443 --> caddy
    end
    subgraph pc
      windows
    end
  end
  subgraph openwrt_router
    http_client --> port_forward
    github_action_runner --> wireguard
    wireguard_client --> wireguard
    port_forward -- 80 and 443 --> server_port
    dns_name_server <-- update dynamic public IPv4 -->  ddns_client_v4
    dns_name_server <-- update dynamic public IPv6 prefix -->  ddns_client_v6
  end
  wireguard --> lan_network
```

## Data

```mermaid
flowchart TB
  subgraph media_server
    subgraph os_disk
    end
    subgraph data_disk
      subgraph storage_disk
      storage_disk_1
      storage_disk_2
      end
      subgraph parity_disk
      parity_disk_1
      end
    end
  end
```

# Note

- Always run partition playbook with --check first

```
ansible-playbook partition --check
```

## PC

### Intel AMT support

- It's possible to control the PC remotely from BIOS via Intel AMT
- Setup:

1. Enable Intel AMT
2. Enable the integrated GPU in the BIOS in case of using a discrete GPU (NVIDA, AMD)
3. Set the integrated GPU as the default GPU in the BIOS
4. Use [Intel software](https://software.intel.com/sites/manageability/AMT_Implementation_and_Reference_Guide/default.htm?turl=WordDocuments%2Ftoolsusingkvm.htm) for setting up KVM (remote mouse and keyboard) to the PC. For cross-platform open source solution, checkout [Meshcentral in a container](https://github.com/Typhonragewind/meshcentral-docker)

### Boot from Nvme

- I used a HPZ230 for the server with an NVME hard drive in the PCIE slot.
- The mainboard does not allow booting from PCIE slot directly, so I have to boot from [Cloverboot](https://github.com/CloverHackyColor/CloverBootloader) installed in an USB.
  - It can be installed by downloading the release from the github page and burn the ISO to the USB. The name is `CloverISO-<revision>.tar.lzma`
  - After burning the ISO into USB, copy the EFI\CLOVER\drivers\off\NvmExpressDxe.efi to EFI\CLOVER\drivers\UEFI
  - In the BIOS, set the boot order to boot from USB first
  - Then set the following settings in the BIOS
    - Advanced -> Option ROM Launch Policy -> Storage Options Rom -> UEFI only

### WOL

- In the BIOS, enable wol via Advanced -> Device Options -> S5 Wake on LAN

## Services

### Koreader connection to opds Calibre content server

- The koreader opds requires `/opds` path to the calibre content server
- The calibre content server authentication need to be `digest` for the koreader opds

# Troubleshooting

## Pymedusa

### Pymedusa failed create hardlink

- Check [this](roles/pymedusa/README.md)

### Check failed to hardlink file

- Run this command in the Video folder

```
find . -type f -links 1 ! -name "*.srt" -print
```

<!-- TODO: Write a scheduled monitoring for this -->

## Nextcloud

### Stuck in maintenance mode

1. Rebuild nextcloud

```
ansible-playbook container_run.yaml --tags nextcloud
```

## Container name with pod exists

- Check if the container exists as external storage in podman then remove that container

```
podman ps --external
```

- Reference
  - https://docs.podman.io/en/latest/markdown/podman-ps.1.html#external
  - https://github.com/containers/podman/issues/3983

# FAQ

1. Why HP Z230?

- The PC itself is a bit old, and the bios is no longer updated. However, it is good for home usage due to the following reasons:
  - Can be cheaply build with a Xeon E3-1230v3 CPU
  - Has 4 DIMM DDR3 slots, and support for ECC memory. DDDR4 ECC memory can be expensive
  - Has 2 GPU slots, though I don't really need SLI
  - Has Intel AMT support, so I can have headless remote access to the BIOS for troubleshooting
- It has some annoyances however:
  - The mainboard has no Nvme slot, and does not allow booting from PCIE slot directly, but can be solved via Cloverboot option from above
  - Has little room for HDD (2 by default), but can be solved by using a HDD cage
